So,
one of my favorite places on earth
in the northwest of WA,
we have this run
that works in the mornings. So, you've
got to hit it and score it on like a
howling offshore.
It's like a bay run on absolute
steroids.
It's actually a golf run.
It is so much fun coming up here doing
this one.
[Music]
So, right now I'm running the um the new
tempo from Axis,
which is I'm on the 960,
which is 575 cm. And that sounds tiny
because I'm no pro,
but
has so much good bottom end built into
it. The paddle up's actually pretty easy
compared to other wings of that size. I
think 16 aspect
once it gets going, the glide on this
thing is out of control. Connects the
dots with all of that glide.
And now up up and overing is like
you just do it all the time. Like this
is just you're just sitting on like 30ks
an hour average without even trying.
This is just absolutely wild.
Um,
there was a bit of misconception that
these might just be for pros, you know,
race only wings. And don't get me wrong,
if you're a racer looking to hunt PBS,
this is what you want. But also if
you're like
weekend warrior downwind that just likes
to go fast and keep an eye on your own
performances and continually looking to
improve. It's nothing to be intimidated
by. It's like anyone can get on these.
If you've ridden the fireballs, it's
intuitive. It's very similar.
Most people sort of say it's just like
the fireball
but quicker or less drag or slipperier
version of the fireballs
which is pretty good assessment.
But right now, wow, some of these bumps,
I'm just up and overing with like a
couple of little bumps in between. And
it just allows you so much time to pick
your line across the next section.
Like, I can't get off these things.
I don't even race, but I always like to
like do like, you know, beat my own
times and PBS.
And soon as I started riding the tempos
is when I started like
throwing all my old PBs out the window,
this thing's just smashing them. It's
gives you so much time to conserve
energy
and find like your flow state.
It's pretty insane.
So, the glide is one thing that for me
actually makes it easy to use because
it'll flow through the dead zones, which
is exactly what I'm doing now. Just
linking up, joining the dots, no
pumping. Still absolutely flying along.
Cutting pretty hard on this run.
So, we need to cut a lot on this just
because it's a little onshore and the
coast wraps back in at the end. So, I'm
basically cutting across the right hand
as as much as I can here to try and gain
some ground to set up for
a good finish. Otherwise, if we don't
cut enough, there's a risk of falling
short and having to endure an extremely
inconvenient
swimming or paddling through the shallow
flats. It's like a
shark nursery in their sanctuary zone.
There's like hundreds of baby sharks
swimming around in this water that's not
clear. Uh, and it's like need waste deep
reef extremely annoying, time consuming
paddling. So, number one goal is to
avoid that. Number two goal is to have
fun.
And so far with the tempo,
it looks like I'm able to achieve both.
Got some beautiful bumps lining up now.
I'm out in the middle of the Gulf.
It's about 8:00 in the morning.
I'm just going to stand here and save
some energy. Enjoy the ride a little.
Just hunt this one real quick.
Pretty easy up and over. six pumps
you choose. But do the up and overs with
the tempo pretty easily or you can just
fade back. I do a little fade back now.
I'll go right. Grab some ground. Just
glide along until you find the next
bump. There's one right here.
So, probably gained about 50 m on my
track there.
There we go. Swoop into this righthander
and just I'm going to gain a heap of
ground here.
Like wind in my face now. Going dead
across the wind.
Like no worries. This thing just helps
cutting like you wouldn't believe.
And hopefully that allows me to enjoy
the back half of the run more. But the
bumps are getting pretty big out here
now. It's good.
Starting to sort of get the finish
inside up ahead so I can plan which way
I want to come in. Big bump here.
Oh my goodness. That's an in involuntary
up and over where you just get sent and
you're just a passenger. And another one
right in front here. I'm just going to
glide over that. No pumping. And down
the next
I'll cut right. There's a big bump
juicing up over here. Oh my god. Making
it so easy this thing.
Trying not to go left, but change of
scenery is always good.
Cut out the back a bit to see what
happens off the back here. Look at this.
All right. So, I have
managed to put together a good run where
I have an ideal line to the finish. So,
if anything goes pear-shaped, it's on
me. I've set myself up for a good finish
all the way to the sand.
The pump in can be a challenge cuz you
sort of start to go across the wind on
the way in.
And I'm on a tin tiny wing, but
if it's good enough for the pros, it's
good enough for me, right? That's what I
said before. So, have to hold myself to
my word here. So,
very similar to
like finishing at Canaha on Maui where
you're looking for like a really narrow
gap in the reef
and then a little lagoon pump at the
end.
Not quite as long as the Canaha Lagoon
Pump, thankfully, but still pretty
tricky for an old boy.
So, I'm going to try and preserve some
legs for the next few minutes. Save
something for that end.
The bumps go really weird at this point,
too. So, I'm going to have to be right
on my game.
Still lucky enough to have some really
good energy at this point.
So, I use the ocean as much as I can
before I tap into the legs. And I'm
really going to have to rely on the
bottom end that I was bragging about
before to pump my way to the shore.
Turtles mating up ahead. So, choose your
path wisely.
All right. Now I need to be so strategic
about staying with the bumps. It's
really easy to go uphill here
from past experience. So
I can see the reef approaching
and I know that I'm in for a pump for
sure.
So finding a gap
and
riding high cuz it's freaking shallow.
This part's critical. I've got a nice
little runner here to save some legs.
Okay,
it's all about to go down
one way or another.
All right, first shallow bit.
I can see the finish. And I've got a
sweet little bump still.
Kind of halfway through the reef.
There's one more shallow bit here. Here
we go.
Just going to try and sit in this
trough. Get ready to put the hammer
down.
Here we go. Here we go.
Here
we go. Got a little run. That's going to
help. Well, I've cleared the reef at
least. That's huge.
I've pretty much done the hard work.
Just going for the icing on the cake,
which is to beach this thing.
Let's
go.
Here
we go. Big legs.
Done it. Frothing. There it is.
Oh yeah. It's been a year since I've
done that that particular run.
Woo. That was so sick.
Record time, too.